Speaker bio
-----------

Julia Evans was studying pure math and thought statistics was boring
when Bixi started publishing their data, and proved her so, so, wrong.
She started making maps and plotting time series obsessively and now
works as a data scientist where she gets to do that all day. She spends
all day every day looking at IPython Notebook.

She's especially interested in how data science can make people's lives
better, and how to stop it from making things worse.  She also
co-organizes PyLadies Montréal and Montréal All-Girl Hack Night.

Talk proposal
-------------

Title: "Diving into Open Data with IPython Notebook & pandas"

Abstract
--------

I'll walk you through Python's best tools for getting a grip on some new
open data: IPython Notebook and pandas. I'll show you how to read in
data, clean it up, graph it, and draw some conclusions, using some open
data about the number of cyclists on Montréal's bike paths as an example.

Details
-------

I can do the talk in either 20 minutes or longer.

The idea is to choose a sample data set (probably cyclists on Montréal's
bike paths, but maybe something else), and show how to

- clean up the data (fix date formatting issues, remove null values, ...)
- graph the data
- download some weather data from the weather office website and look at
  the correlation between weather and number of people biking
- show how to aggregate the data to find out how many people bike on
  Mondays vs Wednesdays
- talk about possible directions to take the project (make a model using
  scikit-learn or PyMC!)


I gave a lightning talk similar to this at Montréal Python. The video is
here:

My credentials: I work as a data scientist, and I've been spending all
day every day for the last 6 months working inside IPython Notebook and
typing 'import pandas as pd' as the first line :)

This is not substantially different in aim from the talk Taavi Burns
gave at the last Pycon Canada, but I keep meeting all kinds of people
who don't know about IPython Notebook, so I think it's still of interest
:)

